{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 With preprocessing complete, the next step is natural language processing. Natural language processing is in itself a multi-stage process. First, the text data from the corpus is broken into sentences, then the sentences are broken into words. Each word is tagged for its part of speech. Next, each word is stemmed using the Lancaster stemmer provided with the Natural Language Took Kit (NLTK). In the same block where stemming occurs the program discards sentence fragments; those sentences which have either no verbs or no nouns. Named entity recognition is next run against the text to identify proper nouns. Then, phrases are created using a few simple grammar rules. The combination of phrases extracted from each service desk problem is used to represent a summary of the problem.\
At this point the original problem statement of \'93\'97melenrdr - 04/11/2012 - 06:53 13-------------- _____________________________________________ From: Sevel, Evan NI/IBC-SIM Sent: Wednesday, April 11, 2012 12:13 AM To: IT-Support Schaeffler-Group North America Subject: 500 Internal Server Error When trying to access the Self Service to access my benefits and payment, I receive the error \'91500 Internal Server Error.\'92 Evan P. Sevel International Key Account Manager Schaeffler Group USA Inc. Mobile: 704-519-8474 E-mail: sevelean@schaeffler.com Catalog: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://medias.schaeffler.com/medias/en!hp/%E2%80%9D"}}{\fldrslt http://medias.schaeffler.com/medias/en!hp/\'94}} would be converted into the following phrases: \'93server error when\'94, \'93tri\'94, \'93access the self servic\'94, \'93access, benefit and payment\'94, \'93receiv\'94, \'93the error intern server error\'94. These results are typical, and, on average, provide a good summary of the actual problem.}